Welcome to the lesson on the Ethereum Smart Contracts and Solidity.
I'm Alina, and I'll be your instructor for this lesson and the next.
In the last lesson,
we learned the basics of a Ethereum.
In this lesson, we'll talk about Ethereum smart contracts,
what they are, and how you can get started building your own.
You'll learn the basics of how to write and manually test your smart contract.
This will set you up to write complex decentralized applications in the next lesson.
This will be a huge step towards understanding smart contract development,
and I'm excited to teach it to you.
Smart contracts on Etherium are programs that can be run on the Ethereum network.
These programs are deployed to the entire network and
each call to a smart contract is verified by all participating nodes.
This allows for trusted parties to participate in
complex financial contracts without any third party supervision.
Numerous projects are working on prediction markets that allow anyone to bet on
a future event and be paid out if
their prediction was correct without any central authority.
Other projects are working on loans,
where anyone around the world can request or offer
funds for a loan entirely from a de-centralized smart contract.
The concept of a smart contract is not a new one.
In fact, it was first proposed by Nick Szabo in the mid-nineties.
Etherium however, is the first blockchain to have implemented a smart contracts platform.
In comparison to bitcoin scripts,
Ethereum smart contracts are Turing Complete.
This simply means that smart contract code is non-deterministic,
and can have conditional branching,
jumps, and for loops.
The versatility for what's smart contracts can be used for has
resulted in vastly different developer ecosystems in comparison to Bitcoin.
Ethereum developer ecosystem is rich in Turing and open-source projects.
Many projects and entire companies emerged with
their core tech being built on Ethereum smart contracts.
Some of these projects have made quite a stir in the medium.
These Ethereum-based projects have distributed the token that they made
Ethereum smart contract to the public in what is called initial coin offerings or ICO.
Collectively, these projects raise billions of dollars.
These projects range from focusing on games,
to provide services, to art,
to different types of insurance, to credit,
loans, derivatives, and even keeping track of physical property.
To date, there're roughly 1,000 such projects that have made a
token on top of Ethereum with the help of a smart contract.
One of the more successful and creative use cases for
a smart contract has been around gaming.
One such extremely successful project is called cryptokitties.
Cryptokitties is a game that allows you to buy,
own, and breed digital cats.
Certain cats are worth more than others based on the rarity of their genes.
The price release cats vary from just a few dollars to
the most expensive kitty ever sold for $140,000 in the digital art auction.
A smart contract has to compile down to op-codes that
the Etherium Virtual Machine or EVM can understand.
Though there are many programming languages for smart contracts,
the most maintained one is called solidity,
provided by the Etherium foundation.
Solidity is the one that we'll focus on for this course.